---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Mutations

Apollo certification badge

Lift-off V: Production & the Schema Registry is a certifying course!

the schema registry

keep track of our schema changes, monitor usage, and scale our API.

Quick disclaimer: this course is not an exhaustive walkthrough of all the ways we could get our app to production

use other solutions, the deploy process might look ever so slightly different, but keep an eye out for the code-specific configurations we'll make!

To follow along, you'll need to have these repos cloned both locally and in your own GitHub account.

https://github.com/apollographql/odyssey-lift-off-part5-server

https://github.com/apollographql/odyssey-lift-off-part5-client

Schema evolution

Our app, along with our schema, is intended to evolve over time as we add new features and improve our codebase. To support this healthy schema evolution, we can use the Apollo schema registry.

schema registry?

1. querying a production graph without relying on introspection

2. avoiding breaking changes in federated graphs

3. tracking variants of the same graph in different environments

At its core, the schema registry is a version control system for our schema. It stores our schema's change history, tracking the types and fields that were added, modified, and removed. The registry powers almost every Apollo feature.

should push every new version of our schema to the registry. Apollo Server can do that for us automatically on startup, or we can include it as a step in our CI/CD process.

new versions of the schema should be pushed to the registry

2. we can track variants of the same graph that are deployed in different environments, such as staging and production. We can run schema checks to detect when a potential change might break one of our clients. We can also use the Explorer on a production graph without relying on introspection, so our graph's structure is kept private from unauthorized clients.

As our graph grows, multiple teams might even want to break parts of it into separate subgraphs that they manage independently. The schema registry can take care of tracking all those subgraphs, enabling Apollo to surface potential conflicts between them, and even powering schema composition with Apollo managed federation!

storing schema change history for a single graph and field usage.

# Getting our app into production

## Registering our schema with Apollo

Sandbox is a **development** environment where we can explore and test a GraphQL schema. To register a **production** schema and track our changes over time, we can create a **deployed graph** in Apollo Studio, which is visible to the **whole organization** .

Create a deployed graph, which integrates with the schema registry.

A deployed graph is visible to all members of your organization.

Select Monolith as the graph architecture

Apollo Server uses a protocol called schema reporting, where our GraphQL server automatically registers its latest schema every time it starts up

the structure of the graph reference variable is really <APOLLO_GRAPH_ID>@<APOLLO_GRAPH_VARIANT>.)

How does Apollo Server automatically register its schema in production?

Apollo Server automatically push its schema when it starts

requires no further maintenance or installation

```env
APOLLO_KEY=service:catstronauts-amazing:••••••••••••••••••••••
APOLLO_GRAPH_REF=catstronauts-amazing@current
APOLLO_SCHEMA_REPORTING=true
```

Get our GraphQL server up and running in production using Railway!

Add variables.

Railway project with Add Variables button highlighted
Raw Editor

ENV panel

Settings
Generate Domain

Railway needs our server to run on a port specified by the PORT environment variable, which is set behind the scenes.

The port property should be set to process.env.PORT (with PORT in all-caps).

Edit the code below to configure Apollo Server to listen to a port specified by process.env.PORT, or if that doesn't exist, a hard-coded port number 4000.
12345

```
async function startApolloServer(server) {
  const { url } = await server.listen();
  console.log(`🚀  Server ready at ${url}`);
}
startApolloServer(server);
```

Railway automatically set the NODE_ENV environment variable to production, which alerts our Apollo Server to switch itself to production as well, automatically disabling introspection.

## GraphQL introspection?

Apollo Sandbox uses introspection to build and run queries. Introspection enables us to query a GraphQL server for information about the underlying schema. This includes data like types, fields, and field-level descriptions.

Having introspection in production can be a major security issue. It exposes all of our graph's structure and what we can do with it to the whole world. Apollo Server disables introspection by default in a production environment.

Schema registry provides a secure way to access our graph and run queries on it using Apollo Explorer.

GIF of cat being picked up with space background appearing as if being launched into space

# Replacing a field in our schema

A common situation for an evolving graph is to deprecate an existing schema field in favor of a new field

As we were going through some code cleanup

improve our schema to be more explicit about what exactly this field is.

This requires changes to our schema! Here's the plan:

1. Add a new field to the schema.
2. Mark the old field as deprecated.
3. Monitor usage of the old field.
4. Whenever usage is down and clients have had appropriate time to make their changes, we can safely remove the old field!

When replacing a field in your schema, there are a number of steps you should follow. First,
**add the new replacement field** to your schema. Next, **deprecate the old field** by using the **@deprecated** directive. Then, make sure to **monitor usage of the old field**, waiting until usage of that field goes down before we can **remove the old field**

durationInSeconds
field name much clearer
accurate description

A schema directive starts with the **@** character and it can appear after particular symbols in the schema, such as **fields** or **types**. An example of a default directive is **@deprecated**, which indicates that a field should no longer be used. This directive is often used with the **reason** argument to specify why the field shouldn't be used, or which field to use instead.

✍️ Adding resolvers

We'll need a resolver for both of these new fields. Our REST API doesn't provide this durationInSeconds property. That's okay, it doesn't need to match our schema's fields 1 to 1-- that's the beauty of GraphQL!

Open up the resolvers.js file. Let's tackle the Track.durationInSeconds resolver first.

Add a new property under the Track object with the same name as the field, durationInSeconds. This will be set to our resolver function.

## Schema directives

To mark a field as deprecated, we'll use GraphQL schema directives.

A schema directive is indicated with an @ character, and it decorates a specific symbol in your schema, such as a type or field definition.

Our server (or any other system that interacts with our schema) can then perform custom logic for that symbol based on its directives

@deprecated

apply the @deprecated directive to a field to indicate that the field is... deprecated!

We should always pass this directive a reason argument, which indicates why it's being deprecated, and which field a client should use instead. This is useful information for the clients querying your graph.

Illustration showing the syntax for using the deprecated directive in the schema with the reason argument

Checking out the registry

Apollo schema registry.

The Changelog page

green pluses for additions,
red minuses for deletions, and
yellow circles for modifications from previous versions

```
query GetTrackAndModuleDurations($trackId: ID!) {
  track(id: $trackId) {
    length
    durationInSeconds
    modules {
      length
      durationInSeconds
    }
  }
}
```

monitor usage for the old field

track API state and usage down to the field level.

field executions and referencing operations.

The Fields page displaying field executions and referencing operations for each field

The number of field executions represents : how many times the server has executed the resolver function for a specific field over the given period.

Referencing operations : lists the number of operations in a given period that have included the particular field.

Addressing deprecated fields

We can see from the field metrics on the Fields page that our deprecated length field is still being used.

make sure that usage for this field goes down to zero

replacing all the occurrences of length with durationInSeconds
