---
sidebar_position: 9
---

populate the queried schema fields with mocked data

Floating in the vacuum of localhost space without access to any data, it's a sad and lonely server for now. 😿

Executing with useQuery

If we don't have an error, we must have data!

```js title="the JSON.stringify() method"
<Layout grid>{JSON.stringify(data)}</Layout>
```

the server response to our TRACKS GraphQL query includes a tracksForHome key, which contains the array of tracks.

considered data needs from the client's perspective before even starting to code.

defined our schema and used Apollo Server to build a basic GraphQL endpoint that provides mocked responses.

use the Apollo Sandbox Explorer to interactively build and test queries against our local GraphQL server.

perform a query operation from the client side to the GraphQL server

#

Centered text 'The Journey of a GraphQL Query' with accompanying doodles of GraphQL components around

first extracts the string with the GraphQL query. It parses and transforms it into something it can better manipulate: a tree-structured document called an AST (Abstract Syntax Tree). With this AST, the server validates the query against the types and fields in our schema.

If anything is off (e.g. a requested field is not defined in the schema or the query is malformed), the server throws an error and sends it right back to the app.

Hand-drawn illustration depicting server-land with the GraphQL server receiving a query and going through the necessary steps
Which of these are actions that our GraphQL server takes when it receives a request?

Correct. A GraphQL server does all of these.
Which of these are situations where our GraphQL server will throw an error?

Correct. Queries must use valid GraphQL syntax and must only include schema-defined fields.
In this case, the query looks good, and the server can "execute" it. Meaning, the server can continue its process and actually fetch the data. The server walks down the AST.

For each field in the query, the server invokes that field's resolver function. A resolver function's mission is to "resolve" its field by populating it with the correct data from the correct source, such as a database or a REST API.

Hand-drawn illustration depicting a resolver function retrieving data from data-land
Which of these are responsibilities of a resolver function?

Correct. A resolver function is responsible for populating the data for a single field in your schema.
As all of the query's fields are resolved, the data is assembled into a nicely ordered JSON object with the exact same shape as the query.

The server assigns the object to the HTTP response body's data key, and it's time for the return trip, back to our app.

Hand-drawn illustration depicting the server returning a response back to the browser in client-land
When a query executes successfully, which of these is included in the object returned by the GraphQL server?

Correct. A successful query's result always matches the query's shape.
Back to client-land
Our client receives the response with exactly the data it needs, passes that data to the right components to render them, and voilà, our homepage is displaying its cards from remote data.

Hand-drawn illustration depicting the browser rendering the data
And that's the journey of a GraphQL query!

#

Our resolver functions will take care of filtering the data properties to match only what the query asks for.

Notably, the array doesn't include the author information we need, such as name and photo. However, it does include an authorId. We can provide this to the /author/:id endpoint, which takes an ID parameter and returns the details of that author.

We'll need to call this /author/:id endpoint for each track in the array that we received in the previous call. Then we'll need to stitch the results together so that we end up with the shape of the data that our resolver, and our query, is expecting.

#

Our GraphQL server needs to access that REST API. It could call the API directly using fetch, or we can use a handy helper class called a DataSource. This class takes care of a few challenges and limitations that come with the direct approach.

#

Our resolvers object's keys will correspond to our schema's types and fields.

A resolver must have the same name as the field it's populating data for.

How will our resolvers interact with our data source? This is where context comes in. Resolver functions have a specific signature with four optional parameters: parent, args, context, and info.

Hand-drawn illustration depicting a resolver function signature with its four parameters
tracksForHome: (parent, args, context, info) => {},
Let's go over each parameter briefly to understand what they're responsible for:

parent:
parent is the returned value of the resolver for this field's parent. This will be useful when dealing with resolver chains.

args:
args is an object that contains all GraphQL arguments that were provided for the field by the GraphQL operation. When querying for a specific item (such as a specific track instead of all tracks), in client-land we'll make a query with an id argument that will be accessible via this args parameter in server-land. We'll cover this further in Lift-off III.

context:
context is an object shared across all resolvers that are executing for a particular operation. The resolver needs this context argument to share state, like authentication information, a database connection, or in our case the RESTDataSource.

info:
info contains information about the operation's execution state, including the field name, the path to the field from the root, and more. It's not used as frequently as the others, but it can be useful for more advanced actions like setting cache policies at the resolver level.
What is the context parameter useful for?

Write an empty resolver function for the field spaceCats with all four parameters as described above. The function should not return anything.

#
