---
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Apollo GraphOS

The supergraph platform
Apollo GraphOS is the cloud platform for building, growing, and collaborating on your organization's supergraph.

The GraphOS platform provides an ever-growing collection of tools and services to help you build your supergraph and scale it safely:

Core features

These features (along with many others) are available to organizations on the Serverless (Free) or Serverless plan:

Cloud routing.

GraphOS automatically provisions and hosts a router for each of your supergraphs. Clients query your router instead of individual subgraphs, which enables the router to automatically collect operation metrics that you can then visualize in Apollo Studio.

The schema registry.

GraphOS tracks the GraphQL schemas for all of your individual subgraphs, and it also handles composing those subgraph schemas into one supergraph schema for your router.

Safe schema delivery.

The schema checks feature of GraphOS enables you to verify whether proposed changes to a subgraph will cause an issue with other subgraphs, or with any of your existing clients.

Whenever you update a subgraph schema, GraphOS composes a new supergraph schema for your router. If composition succeeds, your router automatically begins using its new schema.

You can view the results of each launch that takes place whenever you update a subgraph schema, helping you resolve any issues that might occur.
An interface for every use case.
Apollo Studio is the primary web interface for GraphOS. Among other capabilities, you use Studio to create your organization and its supergraphs, view schemas and metrics, and test out operations in the Explorer.
The Rover CLI is the primary command-line interface for GraphOS. Among other capabilities, you use Rover to publish subgraph schemas to the registry, run schema checks from CI, and test out your supergraph within your development environment.
If you want to automate your own workflows outside of Studio or Rover, you can use the official GraphOS Platform API to do so. We'll expose more GraphOS capabilities through the Platform API over time.
Enterprise features
These additional features are available to organizations on an Enterprise plan:

Self-hosted routing.
Deploy your supergraph's router inside your own infrastructure, enabling you to maximize its performance and fully customize its behavior. Self-deployed routers use the same powerful technology that cloud routing uses under the hood.
Supergraph filtering with contracts.
Deploy multiple instances of your router that use different filtered subsets of your supergraph's schema. Different clients can then communicate with different routers, limiting them to whichever types and fields they should have access to.
Extended data retention.
Your supergraph's historical operation metrics are available for visualization in Studio significantly longer than with a Serverless plan.
Enhanced user management.
Assign fine-grained user roles to organization members, and optionally override those roles on a graph-by-graph basis.
Set up single sign-on (SSO) with your identity provider.
Export audit logs of all material events that occurred within your organization over a time period.
In addition to the features above, an Enterprise plan provides access to our Graph Champions community and a dedicated support channel for your team to talk with Apollo supergraph experts. We'll work with you to customize a query volume limit and support package that's right for you.

If you're interested in an Enterprise plan, please get in touch with us!

Ready to create your first supergraph?

# Apollo Sandbox

Apollo Sandbox is a special mode of Apollo Studio that helps with local development.

Sandbox loads a running GraphQL server's schema via introspection, instead of fetching published schemas from the Apollo registry.

Sandbox provides access to the following Apollo Studio features:

The Explorer
Schema reference
Schema checks and diffs against registered graphs (for logged-in users)
You can use Sandbox offline and without an Apollo account. You also embed Sandbox on your own website.

Connecting to a GraphQL server

Automatically connect to a GraphQL server running at http://localhost:4000

. You can use the box at the top of the Explorer to change this URL to any local or remote GraphQL endpoint that's accessible by your browser:

Sandbox URL field
To try out Sandbox with an example GraphQL API, you can set the URL to:

https://flyby-locations-sub.herokuapp.com/

Schema diffs
If you log in to Apollo Studio from Sandbox, you can diff your Sandbox schema against any subgraph or monolith graph you have access to in the Apollo registry.

From Sandbox, open the Schema Diff page from the left navigation panel. Then use the dropdown menus to select any accessible organization, graph, and variant to compare against:

Schema diff in Sandbox
If you're using Sandbox with a subgraph, this diff shows the schema as originally defined, not the generated subgraph schema that includes federation-specific fields (such as Query.\_entities). You can view the generated subgraph schema from the SDL page in Sandbox.

In addition to viewing the diff on this page, you can click Run a Check in the upper-right to run schema checks against the currently selected variant.

Schema checks
If you log in to Apollo Studio from Sandbox, you can run schema checks between your Sandbox schema and any graph you have access to in the Apollo registry.

Organization members with the Consumer role cannot run schema checks.

From Sandbox, open the Checks page from the left navigation panel:

Sandbox select variant for checks
Select any accessible organization, graph, and variant to check against and click Run a check. When the check completes, Sandbox displays a result summary:

Sandbox checks result
To view the result's full details in Studio, click Go to details.

Subgraph checks
You can run subgraph checks on supergraphs. If you're using Sandbox with a subgraph, you can use the subgraph dropdown to select which subgraph you want to check your changes against.

Sandbox subgraph check prompt
When you click Run a check, Sandbox first performs a composition check using your local subgraph schema and the published schemas of your other subgraphs. If composition succeeds, Sandbox then performs operation checks as usual and displays the results of all checks. If composition fails, Sandbox does not perform operation checks and displays the composition error.

Sandbox subgraph check result
Offline Sandbox
You can use Sandbox without an internet connection if you're querying a graph running on localhost. To do so, open Sandbox in your browser at least once while connected to the internet. You can then use that browser to open Sandbox while offline.

Reconnecting
Sandbox automatically reconnects whenever your internet connection is restored. When it does, it might display a notification that your Apollo Studio application version is stale by at least 24 hours. You can click the notification to update all of your browser's open Apollo Studio tabs to the latest version.

This notification indicates only that the Apollo Studio UI is out of date. Your Studio data is always kept up to date.

Operation collections in Sandbox
See this section.

Embedding Sandbox
You can embed Sandbox on your own website. This can be useful for interacting with a GraphQL endpoint in your development environment or an endpoint with CORS restrictions.

Setup
Open Sandbox.
Under the Explorer's Settings tab, find Embed Sandbox and click Copy code snippet.

The following dialog appears:

Sandbox embed dialog
Within the dialog, use the tabs to select the code snippet for your use case:

Use React for React apps where you can npm install the @apollo/sandbox package.
Use JavaScript for non-React JavaScript apps where you can npm install the @apollo/sandbox package.
Use Built file on CDN to use Apollo's CDN-hosted embedded Sandbox.
Click Copy to copy the snippet, then paste it into your html code.

Options
The EmbeddedSandbox object takes an options object with the following structure (individual options are described below):

```
{
  initialEndpoint: 'http://localhost:4000',
  handleRequest: (endpointUrl, options) => {
    return fetch(endpointUrl, {
      ...options,
      headers: {
          ...options.headers,
          authorization: `token ${token}`
      },
    })
  },
  includeCookies: false,
}
```

These are the optional options you can include in the object you pass to new EmbeddedSandbox:

NAME /
TYPE DESCRIPTION
initialEndpoint
string

The URL of the GraphQL endpoint that Sandbox introspects on initial load. Sandbox populates its pages using the schema obtained from this endpoint.

The default value is http://localhost:4000.

You should only pass non-production endpoints to Sandbox. Sandbox is powered by schema introspection, and we recommend disabling introspection in production. To provide a "Sandbox-like" experience for production endpoints, we recommend using either a public variant or the embedded Explorer.

handleRequest
(url, options) => Promise

By default, the embedded Sandbox uses the fetch API to send requests from your webpage to your specified GraphQL endpoint. If you provide a custom handleRequest function, Sandbox uses it instead of fetch for all operations.

You might want to do this if you need to include specific headers in every request made from your embedded Sandbox.

includeCookies
boolean

By default, the embedded Sandbox uses the default fetch function to make requests, which passes { credentials: 'omit' }.

You can set includeCookies to true if you instead want the Explorer to pass { credentials: 'include' } for its requests.

If you pass the handleRequest option, this option is ignored.

Read more about the fetch API and credentials here.
